[Music]
alright guys listen up
you can build powerful arms work your
abs and develop massive thigh muscles
but the lower pecs are a different story
many guys find this area the hardest to
fully develop no matter how much they
train but if you know and regularly do
the nine exercises of this chest workout
you'll see the results pretty soon
number one decline bench press position
yourself on a decline bench and lock
your legs grab a barbell with your hands
at approximately shoulder width tighten
your arm and chest muscles and bring the
barbell up over your chest then slowly
lower it back do three sets of six to
eight reps the declined bench press is
the movement that targets precisely the
lower part of your pectorals as a result
your chest becomes wide round and
defined to make this exercise more
effective retract your shoulder blades
and control the weight at all times
number two decline dumbbell fly sit down
on a decline bench pick up your weights
and put them on your thighs then lie
down on the bench and move the dumbbells
up into the chest position with your
elbows slightly bent now slowly open
your arms until your hands are at
shoulder level then just as slowly bring
your arms back into the initial position
do four sets of ten to twelve reps each
this exercise will help you get a good
stretch as well as contraction
besides developing your lower packs the
decline dumbbell also trains your upper
chest biceps and the front of your
shoulders just remember to make your
movements slow and controlled
number three just dips that's not like
being dip is it to start hold your body
over the bar and lean a bit forward with
your arms lock then overlap your feet
and bend your legs at the knee at a 90
degree angle it'll make you more
balanced slowly lower yourself by
bending your arms go as deep as you can
until you feel some stretch in your
chest after that slowly lift yourself
back into the initial position by
straightening your arms do four sets of
six to eight reps each the main trick
while doing this exercise is to lean
forward and put pressure on your chest
rather than your triceps or shoulders
also your elbow should be a bit wider
than your shoulders
this way you'll exercise your chest
better number four Machine chest press
sit down on the machine chest press and
place your feet on the floor so that
they're shoulder-width apart grab the
handles and push the bars outward as far
as you can but don't lock your elbows
stay in this position for a couple of
seconds then return the bars toward your
chest do three sets of eight to ten reps
this exercise not only target your lower
packs but also developed your biceps and
deltoids to make this exercise as
effective as possible retract your
shoulder blades and try to tighten
mostly your chest muscles breathe out
when you press out and breathe in when
you recover number five dumbbell
pullover
while keeping your feet on the ground
lie down on the bench and take a
dumbbell in both hands with your elbows
slightly bent slowly bring your arms
backwards so that they're over your head
almost parallel to the floor then just
as slowly bring the dumbbell back into
the initial position do 3 sets of 10 to
12 reps each
even though dumbbell pullovers work
mostly your packs they're also pretty
effective for training your triceps abs
upper back muscles and glutes member 6
cable crossover first of all set the
handles on both sides of the pulleys as
high as possible
stand straight in the center of the
machine and take hold of the handles
your feet should be positioned
shoulder-width apart and your torso
should be slightly bent forward keep
your back straight and your spine
neutral bend your elbows a bit and make
sure your wrists face the floor after
that with your core engaged hold the
handles down and across your body you
don't have to make the handles touch
spend a couple of seconds in this
position then slowly return to the
initial position do 4 sets of 10 to 12
reps each cable crossover exercise
doesn't involve any triceps activity
that's why it allows you to concentrate
on your lower chest remember to squeeze
your chest muscles when you're in the
contracted position number seven seated
machine fly sit down on the chest fly
machine aka the PEC deck and adjust your
seat so that the handles are at chest
height plant your feet flat on the floor
and make sure that your back and lower
back touched the back of the seat take
hold of the handles and while keeping
your arms slightly bent at the elbow
move your hands together stay in this
position for several seconds then slowly
release the handles
back to the initial position do four
sets of ten to twelve reps each the
seated machine fly is a great exercise
for working both your inner and outer
packs as well as your anterior delts
remember to breathe normally while doing
this exercise and don't press into your
feet after all the purpose is to train
your pecs not your legs but the most
important thing is not to arch your back
however tempting and comfortable it may
feel this mistake can lead to serious
lower back injury number eight lower
pulley cable crossover set the cable
alignments on both sides of the pulley
machine to the lower level take hold of
the handles and move them up towards
your chest stay in this position for a
couple of seconds all while squeezing
your chest muscles then slowly lower
your arms and relax your chest do four
sets of 15 reps each this exercise will
reward you with defined packs and a
chiseled lower chest because when you do
it you put the most pressure on your
lower chest number nine push-ups
position your hands under your shoulders
and hold your back buttocks and head in
a straight line make sure that the
weight is on your toes then tighten your
core and glutes after you pull your
shoulder blades back and down lower
yourself slowly until your elbows are
bent at a 90 degree angle try to keep
your arms at your sides and don't move
them away from your body do three sets
of ten to twelve reps while most people
consider push-ups a warm-up exercise
it's actually quite effective for
developing your chest muscles the main
trick to make this area work better is
to position your hands wider than
shoulder-width apart on top of that you
can put some weights on your back it'll
help to increase the intensity of your
workout and now here are several tips
that will make your lower chest workouts
more effective incorporate new exercises
in your workouts by saying new I mean
not only the exercises you've never done
before but
so those you haven't done for a while
for instance if you've been using
barbells lately switch to a pair of
dumbbells and vice-versa also you can
try adjusting the equipment you use like
setting the decline bench just a bit
higher or lower than you usually do
training your chest after a rest day is
the method most professional
bodybuilders use the trick is that after
a rest day you have more energy to do a
full-on chest workout
besides try not to schedule your chest
workout the day after you had triceps or
delts training in other words both your
arms and shoulders have to be fully
rested before you get down to chest
exercises when you perform any pressing
motion to work your chest don't rotate
your shoulders too much always keep your
shoulder blades retracted otherwise you
may damage your AC joint which is a
joint located at the top of the shoulder
and the tissues surrounding it don't
rely too much on machines include free
weight and body weight exercises into
your chest workouts machine exercises
shouldn't make up for more than half of
your training exercise slowly it will
help you to stimulate muscle growth
first of all change the tempo of doing
exercises to prolong the duration of
your training
surely this way you'll have to focus on
your movements much more but the results
will be worth your efforts select a
weight you can control it shouldn't be
too heavy
otherwise you'll start to use the
momentum and bounce the dumbbells or the
barbell to fulfill the needed reps now
have I missed any other effective lower
chest exercises if so let me know down
in the comments if you learned something
new today then give this video a like
and share it with a friend but hey don't
be kline that benchpress just yet we
have over 2,000 cool videos for you to
check out all you have to do is pick the
left or right video click on it and
enjoy stay on the bright side of life